Acupuncture is an alternative form of
medicine that originated in China
more than 2,000 years ago.
A practitioner inserts hair-thin,
but solid metallic needles
into the skin at special points along the body.
Studies show that acupuncture
may reduce pain and nausea.
Once an acupuncture needle
is inserted into the skin,
it remains in place and vibrates
slightly from side to side.
This vibration energy resembles a radio wave.
There is no conclusive explanation
for how acupuncture works
but it is believed that by placing needles
in strategic locations
essentially along 2,000 acupuncture points
located on different nerve channels
it is possible to inhibit the transmission of
pain along nerves to the brain.
Acupuncture is used to treat
an array of health and medical problems,
including back pain, PMS, migraines, osteoarthritis and cancer.
It is also used to alleviate nausea
associated with chemotherapy.